who.md, before:

---
title: The Alliance
layout: page
permalink: /who.html
---

## Database

The main outcome of the Alliance is a shared database of contracts' source code on different EVM chains from different verification providers. The database is publicly accessible by anyone. 

One key aspect of the database is to have a common schema for verified contracts. The schema can be accessed [**here**](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/database-specs).

## Shared knowledge

Current EVM source-code verification ecosystem is dispersed not only in data but also in knowledge. The Alliance is a place for collaboration and documentation of the verification know-how.

This includes publication of verification methods, intricacies of verification in each high-level language, and gathering the discovered edge cases.

## Open Source

The Alliance is dedicated to push the data and smart contract verification tooling become free and open source, and develop the tooling to make developers' lives easier.

## Data providers

![blockscout_icon](/assets/icons/blockscout.svg){: .inline-image} [Blockscout](https://blockscout.com)
![dora_icon](/assets/icons/dora.png){: .inline-image} [Dora](https://ondora.xyz)
![routescan_icon](/assets/icons/routescan.svg){: .inline-image} [Routescan](https://routescan.io)
![sourcify_icon](/assets/icons/sourcify.svg){: .inline-image} [Sourcify](https://sourcify.dev)
![tenderly_icon](/assets/icons/tenderly.png){: .inline-image} [Tenderly](https://tenderly.co)

## Contributors 

![beaconcha.in_icon](/assets/icons/beaconcha.in.jpg){: .inline-image} [Beaconchain](https://beaconcha.in)
![codeslaw_icon](/assets/icons/codeslaw.svg){: .inline-image} [Codeslaw](https://www.codeslaw.app/)
![conduit_icon](/assets/icons/conduit.svg){: .inline-image} [Conduit](https://conduit.xyz)
![paradigm_icon](/assets/icons/paradigm.png){: .inline-image} [Paradigm](https://www.paradigm.xyz/)
![vyper_icon](/assets/icons/vyper.svg){: .inline-image} [Vyper](https://docs.vyperlang.org/)

## Ecosystems

![avalanche_icon](/assets/icons/avalanche.svg){: .inline-image} [Avalanche](https://avax.network)
![optimism_icon](/assets/icons/optimism.svg){: .inline-image} [Optimism](https://optimism.io)

## New partners
If you're interested in joining the Verifier Alliance, send an email to [join@verifieralliance.org](mailto:join@verifieralliance.org?subject=Joining%20the%20Alliance)

Commit message:

Add link to interactive schema

who.md, after:

---
title: The Alliance
layout: page
permalink: /who.html
---

## Database

The main outcome of the Alliance is a shared database of contracts' source code on different EVM chains from different verification providers. The database is publicly accessible by anyone.

One key aspect of the database is to have a common schema for verified contracts. Check out the [schema definition](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/database-specs) or the [interactive schema](https://dbdiagram.io/d/Verifier-Alliance-Schema-66575805b65d93387902b460)

## Shared knowledge

Current EVM source-code verification ecosystem is dispersed not only in data but also in knowledge. The Alliance is a place for collaboration and documentation of the verification know-how.

This includes publication of verification methods, intricacies of verification in each high-level language, and gathering the discovered edge cases.

## Open Source

The Alliance is dedicated to push the data and smart contract verification tooling become free and open source, and develop the tooling to make developers' lives easier.

## Data providers

![blockscout_icon](/assets/icons/blockscout.svg){: .inline-image} [Blockscout](https://blockscout.com)
![dora_icon](/assets/icons/dora.png){: .inline-image} [Dora](https://ondora.xyz)
![routescan_icon](/assets/icons/routescan.svg){: .inline-image} [Routescan](https://routescan.io)
![sourcify_icon](/assets/icons/sourcify.svg){: .inline-image} [Sourcify](https://sourcify.dev)
![tenderly_icon](/assets/icons/tenderly.png){: .inline-image} [Tenderly](https://tenderly.co)

## Contributors

![beaconcha.in_icon](/assets/icons/beaconcha.in.jpg){: .inline-image} [Beaconchain](https://beaconcha.in)
![codeslaw_icon](/assets/icons/codeslaw.svg){: .inline-image} [Codeslaw](https://www.codeslaw.app/)
![conduit_icon](/assets/icons/conduit.svg){: .inline-image} [Conduit](https://conduit.xyz)
![paradigm_icon](/assets/icons/paradigm.png){: .inline-image} [Paradigm](https://www.paradigm.xyz/)
![vyper_icon](/assets/icons/vyper.svg){: .inline-image} [Vyper](https://docs.vyperlang.org/)

## Ecosystems

![avalanche_icon](/assets/icons/avalanche.svg){: .inline-image} [Avalanche](https://avax.network)
![optimism_icon](/assets/icons/optimism.svg){: .inline-image} [Optimism](https://optimism.io)

## New partners

If you're interested in joining the Verifier Alliance, send an email to [join@verifieralliance.org](mailto:join@verifieralliance.org?subject=Joining%20the%20Alliance)
