# Database Schema

Verifier Alliance's database schema is in PostgreSQL and is intended to be a standard for storing and accessing verified smart contract data.

In essence every smart contract verification (`verified_contracts` table) is a mapping between a compilation (`compiled_contracts`) and a deployment (`contract_deployments`). In addition `verified_contracts` defines "transformations". These are changes need to be made on the **recompiled bytecode** to reach the **onchain bytecode**. Transformations can be replacements of non-executional parts of the bytecode (e.g. immutables, libraries, metadata) or insertions at the end such as constructor arguments. Read more about them in the [transformations docs](/docs/transformations).

For deduplicating the source files and the bytecode across verifications the schema also includes a `code` and `sources` table with hashes.

The full and exact schema definition is available [in the GitHub repository](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/database-specs/blob/master/database.sql). You can also access the live schema of the database [here](https://dbdiagram.io/d/Verifier-Alliance-Schema-66575805b65d93387902b460) or in the embedded frame below but the source of truth is the SQL file in the repository. The diagram is only for demonstration purposes and not exact.

The schema contains constraints to ensure the integrity of the data both on columns as well as on the JSON columns:

- Transformations (in `verified_contracts`):
  - `runtime_transformations`
  - `runtime_values`
  - `creation_transformations`
  - `creation_values`
- Compilation Artifacts (in `compiled_contracts`):
  - `compiler_settings`
  - `compilation_artifacts`
  - `creation_code_artifacts`
  - `runtime_code_artifacts`

:::warning
If the contract has ["unlinked libraries"](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.30/using-the-compiler.html#library-linking), the placeholder strings like `__$53ae...a537$__` in bytecodes will be normalized to `0000...0000`s. This is required since the `code` column is a `bytea` type in the DB.

Therefore, the bytecode string from the DB **will not be identical** to the output of the compilation. You can "de-normalize" these fields by looking at the library transformations and filling the placeholders with the library identifier.
:::

<iframe src='https://dbdiagram.io/e/66575805b65d93387902b460/6657580cb65d93387902b52e' style={{width: "100%", height: "500px"}}> </iframe>

## Notes on the data

We will be documenting the known inconsistencies in the data below:

- **Compiler versions**
  - Blockscout writes versions with a `v` prefix: `v0.3.0` but Sourcify and Routescan do not `0.3.0`
  - **Vyper:** Keep in mind the vyper version build strings are not consistent (details [here](hhttps://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/issues/2247#issuecomment-3155878775)):
    - version =< 0.3.0: The commit hash has 7 characters `0.3.0+commit.8a23feb`
    - version 0.3.1: No commit hash: `0.3.1`
    - version >= 0.3.2: The commit hash has 8 characters `0.3.2+commit.3b6a4117`

See discussed changes for the next v2 schema [here](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/database-specs/issues/30).
