docs/5. download.md, before:

# Download the Dataset

The whole dataset is exported daily in [Parquet](https://github.com/apache/parquet-format), a modern column-based data format that is directly queryable and compressed. ([Quick tutorial](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/apache-parquet)). The parquet files are hosted at Cloudflare R2.

The latest dataset manifest is available at [export.verifieralliance.org](https://export.verifieralliance.org/) in JSON format.

The manifest contains each table under the `files` field. Each table is partitioned in a certain number of rows, depending on the size of the table. E.g. the `verified_contracts` table is partitioned in 1 million rows since each row is small, whereas the `sources` table is partitioned in 10,000 rows.

Following each entry in the array under the table names, one can download each partition. For example, the first partition of the `verified_contracts` table is available at [https://export.verifieralliance.org/verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet](https://export.verifieralliance.org/verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet).

The manifest looks like this:

```json
{
  "timestamp": 1742781993318,
  "dateStr": "2025-03-24T02:06:33.318021Z",
  "files": {
    "code": ["code/code_0_100000.parquet", "code/code_100000_200000.parquet", "code/code_200000_300000.parquet"],
    "contracts": ["contracts/contracts_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "contract_deployments": ["contract_deployments/contract_deployments_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "compiled_contracts": [
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_0_10000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_10000_20000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_20000_30000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_30000_40000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_40000_50000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_50000_60000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_60000_70000.parquet"
    ],
    "compiled_contracts_sources": ["compiled_contracts_sources/compiled_contracts_sources_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "sources": [
      "sources/sources_0_10000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_10000_20000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_20000_30000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_30000_40000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_40000_50000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_50000_60000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_60000_70000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_70000_80000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_80000_90000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_90000_100000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_100000_110000.parquet"
    ],
    "verified_contracts": ["verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet"]
  }
}
```

The source code of the export script is available at [https://github.com/verifier-alliance/parquet-export](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/parquet-export).

Commit message:

Add parquet export v1 deprecation notice

docs/5. download.md, after:

# Download the Dataset

:::warning Deprecation Notice

The current parquet download format will be deprecated. A new `/v2` endpoint will be introduced with an updated format. Documentation for the new format will be added once it is live. Feel free to use the export in its current form, but be aware that it will be replaced.
:::

The whole dataset is exported daily in [Parquet](https://github.com/apache/parquet-format), a modern column-based data format that is directly queryable and compressed. ([Quick tutorial](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/apache-parquet)). The parquet files are hosted at Cloudflare R2.

The latest dataset manifest is available at [export.verifieralliance.org](https://export.verifieralliance.org/) in JSON format.

The manifest contains each table under the `files` field. Each table is partitioned in a certain number of rows, depending on the size of the table. E.g. the `verified_contracts` table is partitioned in 1 million rows since each row is small, whereas the `sources` table is partitioned in 10,000 rows.

Following each entry in the array under the table names, one can download each partition. For example, the first partition of the `verified_contracts` table is available at [https://export.verifieralliance.org/verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet](https://export.verifieralliance.org/verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet).

The manifest looks like this:

```json
{
  "timestamp": 1742781993318,
  "dateStr": "2025-03-24T02:06:33.318021Z",
  "files": {
    "code": ["code/code_0_100000.parquet", "code/code_100000_200000.parquet", "code/code_200000_300000.parquet"],
    "contracts": ["contracts/contracts_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "contract_deployments": ["contract_deployments/contract_deployments_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "compiled_contracts": [
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_0_10000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_10000_20000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_20000_30000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_30000_40000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_40000_50000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_50000_60000.parquet",
      "compiled_contracts/compiled_contracts_60000_70000.parquet"
    ],
    "compiled_contracts_sources": ["compiled_contracts_sources/compiled_contracts_sources_0_1000000.parquet"],
    "sources": [
      "sources/sources_0_10000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_10000_20000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_20000_30000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_30000_40000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_40000_50000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_50000_60000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_60000_70000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_70000_80000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_80000_90000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_90000_100000.parquet",
      "sources/sources_100000_110000.parquet"
    ],
    "verified_contracts": ["verified_contracts/verified_contracts_0_1000000.parquet"]
  }
}
```

The source code of the export script is available at [https://github.com/verifier-alliance/parquet-export](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/parquet-export).
